okay well let's bring in Luciano zakara
he's an associate professor of golf
politics at katar University thanks
again for joining us here in the studio
first of all if we can start with uh
what Patty was talking about that there
despite what the US says I mean they've
really given a strong indication that
they actually invested in this war
continuing uh rather than trying to
bring it to a close well actually what
is showing is that the United States
facing a lot of uh um contradictions on
one hand on the other hand there a lot
of people that is not happy with how us
is behaving in this in this particular
context it's the second time that the
United States approve emergency aid
military aid to Israel in during the
along this conflict meaning that they
are not sure that the Congress will pass
that because even within the Democrat
Party there are a lot of people that
they are considering that the US should
rethink the overall relation with Israel
and the inconditional support to what is
doing so he showing on one hand that
there is some change public opinion in
the US politic I are changing opinion
but the US cannot deviate from that uh
long-term interest and long-term
Alliance that has with Israel and with
the support of Israel wherever it
happens yeah I guess the point that many
people have been making is how is
selling more deadly weapons to Israel to
kill thousands of Palestinians within
Gaza how is that in the interests of US
National Security well that's that's the
whole point we don't understand that
this is helping the us considering that
is doing the US in the region is not
providing United States more support in
the region but on the other hand more
backlash on what they are doing and this
double standard is is been raised by
many many many people even different
initiatives that United is trying to to
do like having a Coalition in the Red
Sea uh is not getting the the support
that he expected from the Arab countries
more Arab countries will try not to
engage in direct uh negotiation with the
United St in different aspect that have
to do with security as far as the United
States keeps this double standard
pressuring Israel supposedly and on the
other hand still providing GS yeah we've
also heard in the last few hours that
South Africa's launched a case accusing
Israel of genocide at the un's
international court of justice how
significant is that or is it more of a
symbolic move do you think it's symbolic
but significant on on on on some aspects
uh South Africa itself suffer from apart
hate so being a country that suffer from
apart considering that what is doing
Israel is wrong in terms of the history
of South Africa is very is relevant in
terms of giving a message to the whole
International Community if it is
practical we don't know I mean the
international court of justice is not H
the particular court that decides about
genocide or war crimes is the other
court yes but in the other court Israel
considered that has no jurisdiction at
all it's not even signatory of of those
agreements it's a good way to start a
process that is already there I mean uh
many fights were were already submitted
to both International court of justice
and international criminal court against
Israel from
2014 onwards nothing has been decided
yet mainly because Israel consider that
they are not abiding with that yeah and
I guess it is a way to keep the
international pressure on Israel and the
United States as well South Africa has
been very prominent and vocal in leading
the condemnation of Israel do you think
that others the Arab states should be
doing more along the lines of what South
Africa is doing here I they truly
believe yes that they should be doing
more I mean even Latin American countri
I'm from Latin American background so
Latin American countries have been very
vocal more vocals African and Latin
American count than Middle East
countries uh themselves so I think it
something can be done that despite the
fact that the Arab leaders have been
traveling visiting different Capital
trying to gather uh diplomatic uh
support to to different initiatives
mediation etc etc but I think that these
kind of legal measures can be also start
from the Arab countries okay thank you
so much for your Insight we really do
appreciate it this Luciano zakara thank
you